Cape Town South Africa I noticed that
you don't talk to any of the local
inhabitants in any of the places you
visit or live did you have any
relationships with any African people in
Africa I didn't see a single black
person not even in the background I have
never wanted my YouTube channel to
resemble an academic lecture I want to
give it to you raw I want to add whether
it's my daughter watching this or -
whether it's something else that I'm
really going for here I'm not trying to
reproduce what you get the business
meeting or an academic lecture no you
shouldn't curse all the time you
shouldn't be out of control you
shouldn't be insulting to people all the
time but there's a time and a place for
those things - and that's all part of
the rough-and-tumble
life so many of you guys have
recommended this place and I'm super
excited to try it and we are also here
with my friend Jurgen he messaged me on
Instagram yesterday he was like oh my
gosh I can't believe I'm going to
Florida next week like I have to meet
you guys I was like yes like let's go to
lunch
[Music]
you
please consider taking an interest in
local languages politics history and
culture in Bali or anywhere else maybe
start by at least reading the local
newspaper in English
if you read historical nonfiction or
even historical fiction you'll see that
one of the most striking differences
between the world before the internet
was invented and the world after is that
in the past the great mass of humanity
really had no idea how wealthy people
lived it's routine to see in medieval
and even Renaissance literature from all
over the world the sentiment that the
poor suffer less because they do not
even know what luxuries they're missing
out on they cannot even imagine the
foods the wealthy eat the beds they
sleep on so on and so forth there was a
time when it was routine for even
people's household servants to sleep
directly on the kitchen floor while they
the Masters the house owners were
sleeping in a featherbed and of course
with the invention of the photograph
with the invention of silent
black-and-white cinema for the first
time the poor could lay eyes on the
lives of aristocrats the lives of
wealthy millionaires the lives of
captains of industry and we now live in
an era when especially through YouTube
and Instagram the packaged appearance of
wealth and luxury is something that both
allows the wealthy to normalize their
own lives of self-indulgence and allows
the poor the middle class to vicariously
experience something of this kind of
aimless wealth
if you look at a figure like Bruce Wayne
Bruce Wayne really is the villain in
Batman Batman can beat up the Joker
Batman can put the penguin in prison
Batman can chase down poor people in
alleyways who are trying to snatch a
purse trying to steal money to buy a
loaf of bread but the one enemy Batman
can never defeat is Bruce Wayne Bruce
Wayne is the true villain of Batman just
as much as in the Superman comics
it's the multi-millionaire Lex Luthor
but you know the image of idle wealth
represented by the Bruce Wayne character
and even the image of predatory
millionaire businessman presented by Lex
Luthor really is much more positive than
what I see with people like Matt Elam
Berner today um Bruce Wayne he was
always going to a charity ball he's
always doing charity events a woman kind
or another um yeah the humanitarian
element even of Bruce Wayne's life was
really a significant recurring trope it
really is strangely on the nose it
strangely takes this symbolic problem
and makes it self evidently ridiculously
real that when you watch the YouTube
videos of Matt Elam Berner in Africa
there were no Africans there were no
black people anywhere not even in the
backgrounds of her videos she goes to
the beach
but she doesn't go to a beach where you
know that you were in Africa and of
course for the most part what those
videos are showing you is a life of
luxury that is to a surreal extent cut
off from the social and political
reality of what Africa is today and I am
sure she does the same with Thailand or
any other country she visits just now
she's arrived in Bali Indonesia and you
know I left a comment on her video I
made a suggestion I said look you know
when I'm watching your videos filmed in
Africa I can't even tell that they're in
Africa did you have any relationships
with any African people with black
people in Africa did you have any
conversations with them did you talk to
them you know I could add here did you
maybe read a newspaper did you have any
contact with the unfolding history of
Africa did you go to a museum and see
even art objects from the distant past
or did you did you have any contact with
history as it now unfolds in Africa
today you know now that you've arrived
in Indonesia will you consider making
the effort to have some kind of positive
contact with the culture the language
the history even if that were just
reading the local newspaper all these
countries will at least one or two
newspapers in English even Indonesia Oh
believe me you know maybe not a
newspaper specifically for Bali but for
Indonesia as a whole sure um it was
interesting for me to see across the
internet a widespread complaint a
widespread lament that Logan Paul went
to Japan and didn't have any meaningful
contact with the culture now what was
what was surprising or mind-blowing me
about this is just that
it's Logan Paul Logan Paul is a comedian
he's an ex vegan comedian he was vegan
for only a couple months and his style
of comedy is is very lowbrow if there is
one person on earth I would not expect
to have a meaningful connection with
Japanese culture when he goes on
vacation in Japan it would be Logan Paul
but it's also true that Logan Paul is
very much in this mirrored box situation
where people look at him as a symbol
either of a lifestyle they aspire to
have a life that is not just of wealth
but of completely aimless
self-indulgence once they have that
wealth and they also use it to affirm
their own values their own life having
no ambition to make the world a better
place
no ambition to help others no ambition
to learn no ambition for
self-improvement no ambition to be a
better person oneself even you know this
ambition lust life of self-indulgence at
the highest level of luxury available to
you at your salary at your income or
given your inheritance it's true Logan
Paul also represents that and someone
like Matt Elam Berner I don't think she
set out meaning to represent that I
think she probably just got into a
series of steps one after the other with
I think her goal was to have very low
body fat and very high muscle mass and
she saw some really expensive PDFs you
can pay $39.99 let me just check here
let me get my numbers straight you can
pay a lot of money for a book that is
not even on paper so I'm sorry
thirty-five dollars and fifty cents is
her ebook $35.50 Canadian I used to work
in the publishing industry in publishing
the publisher would be considered like a
very generous publisher be considered a
prince if you gave the author 10% of the
ticket price so 10% of the
price when the book left the warehouse
when it left the publisher so most
authors of real books on paper are
getting less than 10% of the value of
the price and the cover you're not even
if you pay 3554 for her to send you this
PDF send you this ebook it's a lot of
money in Pine that's her business
strategy that's what she wanted to do
but I think what she ended up doing step
by step you know probably just partly
because of the format of a website like
Instagram what kind of behavior is
rewarded what gets you popularity
attention you know she's become another
one of the true villains of 21st century
capitalism she's become another Bruce
Wayne
and unlike Bruce Wayne I don't think
that when she turns the lights out and
turns off the camera that she turns into
Batman I don't think she turns into
somebody with a social conscience trying
to make the world a better place and I'm
making this video ultimately because I
hope she will I hope you will too
whoever you are watching this